.TH ASRFACET-RB 1 "April 2026" "ASRFacet-Rb 2.0.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
asrfacet-rb \- authorized attack surface reconnaissance and security mapping framework
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B asrfacet-rb
<command> [arguments] [options]
.br
.B asrfacet-rb
--version
.br
.B asrfacet-rb
--console
.br
.B asrfacet-rb
--web-session
.br
.B asrfacet-rb
manual [section]
.br
.B man
asrfacet-rb
.br
.B man
asrfrb
.SH DESCRIPTION
ASRFacet-Rb is a Ruby 3.2+ framework for authorized attack surface reconnaissance.
It combines passive discovery, DNS and certificate enrichment, service fingerprinting,
HTTP probing, crawling, JavaScript endpoint mining, relationship-aware intelligence,
workspace tracking, reporting, and change detection.
.PP
The framework is intended only for systems you own or have explicit written permission
to test. Scope control, recon memory, guided help, and local validation surfaces are
built in.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B scan DOMAIN
Run the full reconnaissance pipeline. Aliases: s, sc.
.TP
.B passive DOMAIN
Run passive discovery only. Aliases: p, pa.
.TP
.B ports HOST
Run a focused TCP connectivity scan. Aliases: pt, po.
.TP
.B portscan TARGET
Run the scanner engine directly with explicit scan type, timing, and optional version
or OS detection.
.TP
.B dns DOMAIN
Collect DNS records only. Aliases: d, dn.
.TP
.B keys SUBCOMMAND
Manage encrypted API keys with set, get, list, and delete.
.TP
.B workspace SUBCOMMAND
Manage persisted intelligence workspaces with list, show, delete, and export.
.TP
.B graph SUBCOMMAND
Export the legacy knowledge graph as DOT, JSON, or Mermaid.
.TP
.B track TARGET
Diff the current workspace graph against the latest stored snapshot on or before a date.
.TP
.B viz TARGET
Render a workspace graph as DOT, JSON, or Mermaid.
.TP
.B subs TARGET
List stored FQDN assets from a workspace.
.TP
.B lab
Launch the local validation lab.
.TP
.B deploy
Start the web control panel and optional local lab in one go.
.TP
.B web
Launch the local web control panel. Aliases: w, ui.
.TP
.B interactive
Launch the standalone guided workflow. Aliases: i, int.
.TP
.B console
Launch the framework console. Aliases: c, con, shell.
.TP
.B about
Show a framework overview, storage paths, and safety notes. Alias: a.
.TP
.B help [topic], explain TOPIC, manual [section]
Show built-in documentation. Help aliases: h, ?. Explain aliases: x, exp.
Manual aliases: m, man. Version aliases: v, ver.
.SH GLOBAL OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-o, --output PATH
Save output to a file or directory.
.TP
.B \-f, --format cli|json|html|txt|csv|pdf|docx|all|sarif
Select the output renderer.
.TP
.B \-v, --verbose
Print stage-by-stage status messages.
.TP
.B \-t, --threads N
Set worker concurrency for threaded engines.
.TP
.B --timeout SEC
Set the network timeout for active operations.
.TP
.B --scope LIST
Comma-separated authorized domains or IPs.
.TP
.B --exclude LIST
Comma-separated domains or IPs to never touch.
.TP
.B --monitor
Show changes since the previous scan.
.TP
.B --memory
Skip already confirmed subdomains when previous recon memory exists.
.TP
.B --headless
Enable headless browser probing for JavaScript-heavy applications.
.TP
.B --webhook-url URL
Send alerts to Slack or Discord.
.TP
.B --webhook-platform slack|discord
Choose the webhook payload format.
.TP
.B --delay MS
Set a base delay between requests in milliseconds.
.TP
.B --adaptive-rate
Enable adaptive rate control.
.TP
.B \-C, --console
Launch the persistent console shell.
.TP
.B --web-session
Launch the local web control panel.
.TP
.B --web-host HOST
Bind host for web or deploy mode.
.TP
.B --web-port N
Bind port for web or deploy mode.
.SH PORTSCAN
The
.B portscan
command provides direct scanner-engine control:
.TP
.B --type connect|syn|udp|ack|fin|null|xmas|window|maimon|ping|service
Choose the scan type.
.TP
.B \-T, --timing 0-5
Select the scanner timing template.
.TP
.B \-p, --ports SPEC
Use presets such as top100 or top1000, ranges such as 1-1024, or lists such as 22,80,443.
.TP
.B \-sV, --version
Enable service version detection.
.TP
.B \-O, --os
Enable OS fingerprinting.
.TP
.B --intensity 0-9
Set version detection intensity.
.TP
.B --raw-backend auto|nping|builtin
Choose the raw TCP backend for raw-style scan types.
.TP
.B --sudo, --elevate
Attempt a sudo or Administrator relaunch when a raw scan needs elevation.
.PP
Raw-style TCP modes such as syn, ack, fin, null, xmas, window, and maimon require
a raw-capable backend and elevated privileges. ASRFacet-Rb can use Nping across
Linux, macOS, and Windows when it is installed and the host has the required raw
packet support.
.SH CONSOLE
The console is the richest operator interface and supports framework-style commands such as:
.IP
show commands
.br
show options
.br
show workflow
.br
show config
.br
show learning
.br
info recon
.br
man
.br
wizard
.PP
Normal framework commands can also be run directly inside the console.
.SH WEB SESSION
Web session mode starts a local browser-facing control panel, bound to 127.0.0.1:4567
by default unless overridden.
It keeps saved sessions, live activity, report links, command previews, and built-in docs in one shell.
.PP
The web UI is local, not hosted. Drafts are stored under
.I ~/.asrfacet_rb/web_sessions/
and runs still use the same underlying reconnaissance and scanner surfaces as the CLI.
.SH LOCAL LAB
The local lab starts a safe placeholder validation target on 127.0.0.1:9292 by default.
It exposes intentionally weak headers, permissive CORS, JavaScript endpoint patterns,
debug-style routes, and reporting-friendly placeholder content so operators can test
the framework locally before using a real authorized target.
.SH DEPLOY
Deploy mode starts the web control panel and, by default, the local lab together.
It waits for readiness, prints the service URLs, and writes a runtime manifest under
.I ~/.asrfacet_rb/runtime/
unless overridden with
.B --manifest .
Use
.B --public
only when you intentionally want the stack bound to 0.0.0.0.
.SH RECON BASICS
Passive reconnaissance uses third-party data without touching the target.
Active reconnaissance confirms assets by making requests or opening connections.
Effective attack surface mapping combines both approaches, then ranks the results so
deeper testing focuses on the most valuable assets first.
.SH OUTPUTS
.TP
.B cli
Terminal-friendly tables and summaries.
.TP
.B json
Machine-readable output.
.TP
.B html
Offline report with findings, graph relationships, and top targets.
.TP
.B txt
Plain-text export.
.TP
.B csv
Flat exports for subdomains, IPs, ports, findings, and JavaScript endpoints.
.TP
.B pdf
Dark-theme printable report for evidence capture and sharing.
.TP
.B docx
Editable document export for formal reporting workflows.
.TP
.B sarif
Structured security-tooling export for downstream pipelines.
.TP
.B all
Generate every supported report flavor in one request.
.PP
Automatic report bundles are stored under
.I ~/.asrfacet_rb/output/reports/<target>/<timestamp>/
and event streams may be written under
.I ~/.asrfacet_rb/output/streams/ .
.SH FILES
.TP
.I bin/asrfacet-rb
Primary executable.
.TP
.I bin/asrfrb
Short alias executable.
.TP
.I config/default.yml
Project defaults.
.TP
.I ~/.asrfacet_rb/config.yml
User configuration overrides.
.TP
.I ~/.asrfacet_rb/memory/
Per-target scan memory.
.TP
.I ~/.asrfacet_rb/workspaces/
Persisted workspace graphs, session metadata, and exports.
.TP
.I ~/.asrfacet_rb/output/
Stored reports and generated artifacts.
.TP
.I ~/.asrfacet_rb/web_sessions/
Persistent web-session drafts and recovered state.
.TP
.I ~/.asrfacet_rb/runtime/
Deployment manifests and runtime state.
.TP
.I man/asrfacet-rb.1
Primary manual page source.
.TP
.I man/asrfrb.1
Alias manual page source.
.SH TRANSPARENCY
Active modes make real DNS, TCP, HTTP, and related requests to the targets you configure.
Passive results are lead generation, not guaranteed truth. They may include stale records,
shared infrastructure, or inherited services that are not automatically authorized.
.PP
Findings, scores, and recommendations help operators prioritize review, but they do not
prove exploitability, ownership, or business impact on their own.
ASRFacet-Rb does not claim stealth, evasion, or guaranteed completeness.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B asrfacet-rb scan example.com --format html --output report.html
Run a full scan and save an HTML report.
.TP
.B asrfacet-rb passive example.com --format json --output passive.json
Run passive discovery only and save JSON output.
.TP
.B asrfacet-rb portscan 192.0.2.10 --type syn --timing 4 --ports 1-1024 --raw-backend nping --sudo
Run a raw-capable SYN scan with elevation support.
.TP
.B asrfacet-rb workspace list
List persisted workspaces.
.TP
.B asrfacet-rb deploy --public --web-port 8080 --lab-port 9393
Start the full local operator stack.
.TP
.B asrfacet-rb --web-session
Open the local control panel.
.TP
.B asrfacet-rb --version
Print the installed version.
.TP
.B man asrfrb
Open the alias manual page.
.SH SAFETY
Only use ASRFacet-Rb on systems you own or have explicit written permission to test.
Use scope controls and exclusions to keep the target boundary explicit.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR asrfrb (1),
.BR "asrfacet-rb manual"
.SH AUTHOR
voltsparx <voltsparx@gmail.com>
